In the last couple of videos we discussed Docker and Kubernetes.
Hopefully you had a chance to go through those appendix videos at the very end of the course and get
more familiar with Docker if you didn't know about it already.
So I'm saying here you're a Docker pro now, right?
I do not expect you to be a Docker pro.
I really just expect you to have a basic understanding of what a container is, what an image is, how
to create images, how to create containers, and a couple of commands around them, just to reinforce
some of that knowledge.
In this video, we're going to start to Docker, rise our post service, and then we're going to play
around with the image and container just a little bit.
So let's get to it.
In order to doc arise our post service, we're going to have to create an image out of it to make an
image.
Remember, we make a docker file and then run the Docker build command.
In this diagram, I've listed out the different commands that we're going to write out inside of the
Docker file for the Post project.
The first thing we'll do is specify our base image of Node Alpine.
Well, then specify a working directory, which is going to set the working directory for the rest of
all these commands inside of our Docker file.
Well then copy over just the package json file.
Install our dependencies using that file.
And then copy over all the other source code from our project.
And then finally we'll set up our default command of NTP and start to start up our container.
So let's flip over to our code editor and start putting this Docker file together.
Back inside my editor.
I'll find the post directory.
Inside there, I'll make a new file called Docker File and remember it has to have a capital DX and
no extension on it whatsoever.
Then we'll write out those series of commands.
So we were just looking at inside that diagram.
Well, first, specify our base image.
Well then set up a working directory of app.
We will copy over just the package json file.
And then we will run and install to install all of our dependencies.
After that we will copy over everything else from our post directory.
So that really just means our indexed file.
And then finally we'll set up our default command of NPM start.
And that should be it.
Now, one other thing we're going to do really quickly.
Remember that if you went through those videos in the appendix, we usually don't want to include any
install dependencies that are on our local machine.
So in our case, that would be the node modules folder in order to make sure that we don't send all
those dependencies over during the image building process, we're going to create a file inside this
post directory.
Called Dot.
Make sure you get a dot in there.
Docker ignore.
And then inside of here we will write out node modules like.
So that's going to make sure that during the image building process we do not attempt to copy over at
that node modules directory because the image is going to install all the relevant dependencies when
it is being built on its own.
Okay.
So let's now close those two files.
Well, then go back over to our terminal.
I will change into the post directory and inside there we'll do a docker build dot.
So that's going to pull down the node base image, set our working directory, copy over packaged JSON,
install dependencies using that package JSON file.
The dependencies should be installed rather quickly.
We'll then copy over all of the other files inside of our project and then set up that default command.
And at the very end we get the ID of the image that was just built.
So we can now create an instance of that image or in other words, a container by copying that ID and
running Docker run and then pasting the ID of that image.
And there we go.
Looks like our server is running successfully.
Okay, so that's a good step forward.
Let's take a pause right here.
And then as I mentioned, we'll do a quick review on some basic commands with Docker in the next video
just to make sure it's really clear how we can work with a running container.